# megfrisby4.github.io
The purpose of this webpage is to explore genomic analysis for Ebola viruses as well as several other closely related viral species. I will focus on constructing a phylogenetic tree of Ebola viruses and their relatives. Viral species in the phylogenetic tree will be from the order Mononegavirales which are negative stranded RNA viruses which do not have segmented genomes. Ebola viruses are members of the Ebolavirus genus (EVD) within the order Mononegavirales. There are several species of Ebolaviruses including Zaire, Sudan, Tai Forest, Bundibugyo and Marburg. 4 of these species Zaire, Sudan, Tai Forest, and Bundibugyo are known to be pathogenic (cause disease in humans). The natural resevoir host of Ebola viruses is thought to be bats, infections of Ebolaviruses have been identified in monkeys (Macaques), gorillas, apes, and humans. Ebola virus can transfer from one host to another through contact with contaminated bodily fluids and dishcharges including blood and vomit. Sudan Ebolavirus was the first of the Ebolaviruses (family filoviridae) to be discovered in the year 1976 during a simultaneous outbreak in both Sudan (now South Sudan) and Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). It is thought that Ebolaviruses have killed at least 5000 western lowland gorillas and over 15,000 humans. Over 30,000 cases of Ebolaviruses have been reported in humans alone (Barbiero VK., 2020). As Ebolavirus is known as a hemorrhagic fever virus, causing severe tissue damage and inflammation throughout the body often resulting in death, with a massive average fatality rate of 50% in those infected. As Ebolavirus is so dangerous understanding its genomic makeup and phylogenetic relationships to other viruses is increasingly important and of tremendous scientific interest.